# Participants

### Stakers

Anyone can be a Staker by depositing **ETH** to the Diva smart contracts and will instantly receive **divETH** representing their deposit along with its staking rewards generated by the network over time.

Stakers are passive and have no duties towards the Diva protocol. They can use their divETH in the DeFi ecosystem as a liquid staking derivate. divETH accrues staking rewards continuously. The percentage of the rewards from Ethereum that will go to the stakers is set by the DAO, and is expected to be 90-100% of all staking rewards.

### Operators

An Operator is anyone maintaining the infrastructure for Diva protocol by running a node and providing some ETH as a bond.

When an Operator has enough collateral, their node can be selected to be part of a validator and receive validation duties. If fulfilled correctly, the Operator will gain a % of rewards, and if not fulfilled, they might lose part of their collateral.

While Stakers receive 90-100% of the staking yield, **an Operator can expect to earn higher APYs on their ETH**, because their bond is staked generating 100% yield, plus a potential allocation from the 0-10% collected from passive stakers.

This can result in an effective staking APY that's also higher to running a solo validator on Ethereum with 32 ETH.

With Diva, operators can run their DVTs with no technical complexity, more resiliency and from only 1 ETH.


### DIVA Holders

Anyone that holds DIVA tokens has voting rights to the Diva DAO, which is the only one that governs Diva.

Governance parameters are minimized to a set of parameters and ranges considered to be secure.
